.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH hp3455 1  2005-04-05 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
hp3455 \- control HP 3455A digital voltmeter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B hp3455 [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhp3455\fR controls the HP 3455A digital voltmeter via its GPIB interface.
The instrument is presumed to be attached to GPIB adapter 0 and configured 
with an entry in /etc/gpib.conf (see CONFIGURATION below).
.PP
\fBhp3455\fR performs actions selected on the command line in a fixed sequence:
.IP
.nf
clear
perform self test
select function
select range
select trigger mode
select math mode
select autocal mode
select highres mode
store y value
store z value
read measurements
local
.PP
If an action is not selected on the command line, it is not performed.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBhp3455\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR
Override the name used to look up the device in /etc/gpib.conf.
Default: \fIhp3455\fR.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
Clear the instrument, verify its model number, and load defaults
appropriate for remote operation including:
dcv, auto range, synchronous trigger and 5 digits.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
Enable front panel, and load defaults
appropriate for manual operation, essentially the same as \fB--clear\fR
except trigger mode is set to auto.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-selftest\fR 
Perform unit self test.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-function\fR 
Set the function to: 
\fIdcv\fR (DC volts), \fIacv\fR (AC volts), \fIfacv\fR (fast AC volts),
\fIkohm2\fR (2-wire kilohms), or \fIkohm4\fR (4-wire kilohms).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-range\fR 
Set the range to:
\fI0.1\fR, \fI1\fR, \fI10\fR, \fI100\fR, \fI1k\fR, \fI10k\fR, or \fIauto\fR.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-trigger\fR 
Set the trigger mode to:
\fIint\fR (internal), \fIext\fR (external), or \fIhold\fR.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-autocal\fR 
Set the auto calibration mode \fIon\fR or \fIoff\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-highres\fR 
Set the high resolution mode \fIon\fR (6-1/2 digit) or \fIoff\fR (5-1/2 digit).
Highres mode will not work with all acv ranges, the 0.1 dcv range, or the
1k ohm range.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-math\fR 
Set math mode to \fIscale\fR, \fIerr\fR, or \fIoff\fR.
Call the measurement value x:
In scale mode, the reading is (x\-z)/y.
In err mode, the reading is ((x\-y)/y)*100.
.TP
\fB\-y\fR, \fB\-\-storey\fR 
Store the specified value in the y register.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-storez\fR 
Store the specified value in the z register.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-samples\fR 
Specify the number of measurements to take.
Measurements are displayed on stdout in the form received from the instrument.
If more than one measurement is requested, a time in seconds since the
first measurement was initiated is displayed in column one and the measurement
is in column two, with a tab separating the columns.
Default: \fI0\fR (no measurement).
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-period\fR 
Sleep the specified number of seconds between measurements.
The actual measurement period will be the sleep time plus the trigger wait
time plus the measurement integration time.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Take 10 samples 500ms apart:
.IP
hp3455 -c -l -f dcv -T 500ms -s 10 >sample.dat
.PP
The following gnuplot commands will plot volts vs. time:
.IP
.nf
set xlabel "time (s)"
set ylabel "dc volts (v)"
set xrange[0:]
set yrange[-50:50]
set title "HP 3455A Voltmeter Test"
plot 'sample.dat' title "Sample Plot" with linesp;
.fi
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The /etc/gpib.conf entry for this instrument included the following
parameters
.nf
eos = 0xa
set-reos = no
set-bin = no
set-xeos = no
set-eot = yes
timeout = T30s
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
"HP 3455A Digital Voltmeter Operating and Service Manual", July 1979.
.PP
gnuplot(1)
