.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH ics8065 1  2007-11-23 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
ics8065 \- control ICS 8065 Ethernet-GPIB Controller
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B ics8065 [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBics8065\fR is used to configure and access the error log of 
the ICS Electronics 8065 Ethernet-GPIB Controller via its LAN interface.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBics8065\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-address\fR address
Override the default IP address in /etc/gpib-utils.conf.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-get-idn-string\fR
Display the 8065 idn string, which contains the firmware revision,
model number, etc..
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-get-errlog\fR
Get and display the decoded 8065 error log, which contains up to 100 entries.
As a side effect, the error log is cleared.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-get-interface-name\fR
Get the VXI-11 logical name.
.TP
\fB\-J\fR, \fB\-\-set-interface-name\fR name
Set the VXI-11 logical name, e.g. "gpib0".  The name must be no longer
than 31 characters.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-get-comm-timeout\fR
Get the TCP timeout, in seconds.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-set-comm-timeout\fR secs
Set the TCP timeout.
An inactive TCP channel will be left open this length of time before being
closed.  A value of zero means no timeout checking.
The timeout only applies to the core and configuration channel settings.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-get-static-ip-mode\fR
Get the static IP mode setting (0=disabled, 1=enabled).
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-set-static-ip-mode\fR 0|1
Set the static IP mode setting (0=disabled, 1=enabled).
If static IP mode is disabled, dynamic IP configuration is used.
.TP
\fB\-z\fR, \fB\-\-get-ip-number\fR
Get the IP address.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR, \fB\-\-set-ip-number\fR ip-address
Set the IP address.  The IP address setting only applies in static IP mode.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-get-netmask\fR
Get the IP netmask.
.TP
\fB\-N\fR, \fB\-\-set-netmask\fR ip-address
Set the IP netmask.  The netmask setting only applies in static IP mode.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-get-gateway\fR
Get the IP gateway.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-set-gateway\fR ip-address
Set the IP gateway.  The gateway setting only applies in static IP mode.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-get-keepalive\fR
Get the IP keepalive time.
.TP
\fB\-K\fR, \fB\-\-set-keepalive\fR time
Set the IP keepalive time, in seconds.  The keepalive time is the period
of inactivity after which a keepalive is set.  If set to zero, keepalives will 
not be used.
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB\-\-get-gpib-address\fR
Get the GPIB address of the 8065 controller.
.TP
\fB\-Q\fR, \fB\-\-set-gpib-address\fR addr
Set the GPIB address of the 8065 controller (0-30).
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-get-system-controller\fR
Get the system controller mode (0=disabled, 1=enabled).
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-get-system-controller\fR 0|1
Set the system controller mode (0=disabled, 1=enabled).
If enabled, the 8065 will initialize a boot time as the GPIB bus controller.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-get-ren-mode\fR
Get the REN mode (0=false, 1=true).
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-set-ren-mode\fR 0|1
Set the REN mode (0=false, 1=true).  If true, REN will be asserted at boot 
time.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-reload-config\fR
Force a reload of the default configuration settings from nonvolatile RAM.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-reload-factory\fR
Force a reload of the factory configuration settings.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-commit-config\fR
Save the current configuration settings to nonvolatile RAM.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reboot\fR
Reboot the 8065.  All device links will be cleared, all connections closed,
and all resources released.  Upon reboot, the default configuration settings
from nonvolatile RAM will be used.
.SH FILES
/etc/gpib-utils.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
"ICS Electronics MODEL 8065 Ethernet-GPIB Controller Instruction Manual",
rev 2, March 2007.
