.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH a6032 1  2007-11-23 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
a6032 \- control Agilent 6000 Series Oscilloscope
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B a6032 [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBa6032\fR controls the Agilent 6000 series oscilloscope via its LAN or
GPIB interface.
.PP
\fBa6032\fR performs actions selected on the command line in a fixed sequence:
.IP
.nf
clear
set date
get idn string
save/restore/print operation
local
.SH OPTIONS
\fBa6032\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-address\fR address
Override the default instrument address in /etc/gpib-utils.conf.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
Clear the instrument, load default configuration,
and set the date to the UNIX date.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-date\fR
Set the date to to UNIX date.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
Enable the front panel.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-print-screen\fR 
Dump the screen contents to standard output. 
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-print-format\fR format
Select a print format.  Valid formats are
\fIpng\fR, \fIbmp\fR, and \fIbmp8bit\fR.
Default: \fIpng\fR.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-print-palette\fR palette
Select a print palette.  Valid palettes
are \fIcol\fR and \fIgray\fR.
Default: \fIcol\fR.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-save-setup\fR 
Save the instrument configuration to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restore-setup\fR 
Restore instrument configuration from standard input.
.SH FILES
/etc/gpib-utils.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
"Agilent 6000 Series Oscilloscopes Programmer's Reference", 2007.
