.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH r5005 1  2005-04-05 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
r5005 \- control Racal-Dana 5005 digital multimeter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B r5005 [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBr5005\fR controls the Racal-Dana 5005 digital multimeter via its GPIB 
interface.  
.PP
\fBr5005\fR performs actions selected on the command line in a fixed sequence:
.IP
.nf
clear
select function
select range
select trigger mode
select high res mode
read measurements
local
.fi
.PP
If an action is not selected on the command line, it is not performed.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBr5005\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR
Override the name used to look up the device in /etc/gpib.conf.
Default: \fIr5005\fR.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
Clear the instrument and load default settings:
internal reference, internal trigger, disable NULL, disable percent,
disable LAH, disable time.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
Enable front panel.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-function\fR 
Set the function to: 
\fIdcv\fR (DC volts), \fIacv\fR (AC volts), or \fIkohm\fR.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-range\fR 
Set the range to:
\fI0.1\fR, \fI1\fR, \fI10\fR, \fI100\fR, \fI1k\fR, \fI10k\fR, or \fIauto\fR.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-trigger\fR 
Set the trigger mode to:
\fIint\fR (internal), \fIext\fR (external), \fIhold\fR,
\fIextdly\fR (external with delay), or \fIholddly\fR (hold with delay).
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-highres\fR 
Set the high resolution mode \fIon\fR (6-1/2 digit) or \fIoff\fR (5-1/2 digit).
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-samples\fR 
Specify the number of measurements to take.
Measurements are displayed on stdout in the form received from the instrument.
If more than one measurement is requested, a time in seconds since the
first measurement was initiated is displayed in column one and the measurement
is in column two, with a tab separating the columns.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR, \fB\-\-period\fR 
Sleep the specified number of seconds between measurements.
The actual measurement period will be the sleep time plus the trigger wait
time plus the measurement integration time.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Take 10 samples 500ms apart:
.IP
r5005 -c -l -f dcv -T 500ms -s 10 >sample.dat
.PP
The following gnuplot commands will plot volts vs. time:
.IP
.nf
set xlabel "time (s)"
set ylabel "dc volts (v)"
set xrange[0:]
set yrange[-50:50]
set title "Racal-Dana 5005 Multimeter Test"
plot 'sample.dat' title "Sample Plot" with linesp;
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Racal Dana 5005 Digital Multimeter Operating and Service Manual, Feb. 1986.
.PP
gnuplot(1)
