.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH hp8656 1  2005-11-20 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
hp8656 \- control HP 8656A signal generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hp8656 [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhp8656\fR controls the HP 8656A signal generator via its GPIB interface.
The instrument is presumed to be attached to GPIB adapter 0 and configured 
with an entry in /etc/gpib.conf (see CONFIGURATION below).
.PP
\fBhp8656\fR performs actions selected on the command line in a fixed sequence:
.IP
.nf
clear
configure
local
.fi
.PP
If an action is not selected on the command line, it is not peformed.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBhp8656\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR name
Override the name used to look up the device in /etc/gpib.conf.
Default: \fIhp8656\fR.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
Clear the instrument and load the following defaults:
.IP
.nf
carrier frequency: 100 MHz
carrier amplitude: -127.0dBm
carrier frequency increment: 10 Mhz
carrier amplitude increment: 10 dB
AM depth: 0%
AM depth increment: 1%;
FM peak deviation frequency: 0.0 kHz
FM peak deviation frequency increment: 1.0 kHz
coarse and fine tune pointer: 10 MHz
sequence counter: 0
.fi
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
Enable front panel. 
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-frequency\fR value
Set the carrier frequency.
A value of ``up'' or ``down'' adjust the current frequency
by the carrier frequency increment.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-amplitude \fR value
Set the carrier amplitude.
A value of ``up'' or ``down'' adjust the current amplitude
by the carrier amplitude increment.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR, \fB\-\-incrfreq\fR value
Set the carrier frequency increment.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-incrampl\fR value
Set the carrier amplitude increment.

.SH "EXAMPLES"
Configure the instrument to generate a 100 kHz carrier with 1v amplitude,
then step the frequency to 1 Mhz in 10 kHz increments.
.IP
.nf
hp8656 --clear --frequency 100khz --incrfreq 10khz --amplitude 1v
for freq in `seq 100 10 1000`; do
   hp8656 --frequency up
done
hp8656 --local
.fi
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The /etc/gpib.conf entry for this instrument included the following
parameters:
.IP
.nf
eos = 0xa
set-reos = no
set-bin = no
set-xeos = no
set-eot = yes
timeout = T30s
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
"HP 8656A Signal Generator 0.1 - 990 MHz Operating Manual", May 1981.
