.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH hptodino 1  2005-11-25 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
hptodino \- convert HP 1630/1631 state/timing dumps to DECSIM ASCII
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B hptodino [-c clockspeed] <dumpfile >dinofile
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhptodino\fR is a filter that converts HP 1630/1631 logic analyzer
state/timing dumps to DECSIM ASCII format that can be read by dinotrace.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clock\fR freq
Set dinotrace's clock resolution.  The frequency should be set the
same as the analyzer clock trigger period for state traces
and the configured sample period for timing traces.
.SH EXAMPLE
State trace for 1 MHz clock, triggered on both edges (yielding 2 MHz trigger
frequency):
.IP
.nf
hp1630 --save-state >state.dump
hptodino -c 2MHz <state.dump >state.tra
dinotrace state.tra
.fi
.PP
Timing trace at 10 ns sample rate:
.IP
.nf
hp1630 --save-timing >timing.dump
hptodino -c 10ns <timing.dump >timing.tra
dinotrace timing.tra
.fi
.SH "CAVEATS"
The timing learn string contains the analyzer sample period, 
but we don't know how to extract that yet.
.PP
.B dinotrace
can't properly handle a combined state/timing trace.
.PP
.B dinotrace
doesn't verify learn string checksums.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
http://www.veripool.com/dinotrace
.PP
"Hewlett Packard 1630A/D Logic Analyzer Operating Manual",
second edition, May 1983.
.PP
"Hewlett Packard 1631A/D Logic Analyer Operating and Programming Manual",
Aug. 1985.
.PP
"Hewlett Packard 1630A/D/G and 1631A/D Logic Analyzers Service Manual",
Apr. 1988.
.PP
hp1630(1)
