.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH hp1630 1  2005-04-05 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
hp1630 \- control HP 1630/31 logic analyzer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B hp1630 [\fI-n name\fR] [\fIOPTION\fR]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhp1630\fR controls the HP 1630/31 logic analyzer via its GPIB interface.
The instrument is presumed to be attached to GPIB adapter 0 and configured 
with an entry in /etc/gpib.conf (see CONFIGURATION below).
.PP
\fBhp1630\fR first sends a GPIB device clear message, quries the analyzer
model number and verifies the response, then performs the function selected
by \fIOPTION\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBhp1630\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR
Override the name used to look up the device in /etc/gpib.conf.
This is the only option that can be used in combination with another option.
Default: \fIhp1630\fR.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-print-screen\fR 
Dump the screen contents to standard output.  
The output will be in HP-graphics format for waveform displays.
Text displays will be in HP-text or HP-graphics format depending on the
setting in the System Menu.
HP-graphics can be converted to portable bitmap (PBM) format using
the \fBhptopbm\fR utility.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-print-all\fR 
Dump the screen contents and the entire contents of the trace memory
to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-beep\fR 
Send a beep command to the analyzer.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-date\fR 
Set the analyzer date and time to be the same as the UNIX date and time.
Note that month selection depends on the date being set to its power up 
value.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-reset\fR 
Default all instrument menus.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-save-all\fR 
Save the instrument configuration, state measurement data, 
timing measurement data, and analog measurement data (hp1631 only)
to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-save-config\fR 
Save the instrument configuration to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-save-state\fR 
Save the instrument state measurement data to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-save-timing\fR 
Save the instrument timing measurement data to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-save-analog\fR 
Save the instrument analog measurement data to standard output (hp1631 only).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restore\fR 
Restore state/measurement data saved by any of the save options
from standard input.

.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The /etc/gpib.conf entry for this instrument includes the following
parameters eos = 0xa, set-reos = no, set-bin = no, set-xeos = no, 
set-eot = yes, timeout = T30s.
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
hptopbm(1)
.br
HP 1630A Logic Analyzer Operator Manual
.br
HP 1631A Logic Analyzer/Oscilloscope Operator Manual
