.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2005 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH hp1630 1  2005-04-05 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
hp1630 \- control HP 1630/31 logic analyzer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B hp1630 [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhp1630\fR controls the HP 1630/31 logic analyzer via its GPIB interface.
The instrument is presumed to be attached to GPIB adapter 0 and configured 
with an entry in /etc/gpib.conf (see CONFIGURATION below).
.PP
\fBhp1630\fR performs actions selected on the command line in a fixed sequence:
.IP
.nf
clear
save/restore/print operation
local
.SH OPTIONS
\fBhp1630\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-name\fR
Override the name used to look up the device in /etc/gpib.conf.
Default: \fIhp1630\fR.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
Clear the instrument, load power-on values, verify the model number,
and set the date to the UNIX date.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
Enable the front panel.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-print-screen\fR 
Dump the screen contents to standard output.  
The output will be in HP-graphics format for waveform displays.
Text displays will be in HP-text or HP-graphics format depending on the
setting in the System Menu.
HP-graphics can be converted to portable bitmap (PBM) format using
\fBhptopbm(1)\fR.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-print-all\fR 
Dump the screen contents and the entire contents of the trace memory
to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-save-all\fR 
Save the instrument configuration, state measurement data, 
timing measurement data, and analog measurement data (hp1631 only)
to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-save-config\fR 
Save the instrument configuration to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-A\fR, \fB\-\-save-state\fR 
Save the instrument state measurement data to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-save-timing\fR 
Save the instrument timing measurement data to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-save-analog\fR 
Save the instrument analog measurement data to standard output (hp1631 only).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restore\fR 
Restore state/measurement data saved by any of the save options
from standard input.
.SH "CONFIGURATION"
The /etc/gpib.conf entry for this instrument includes the following
parameters:
.IP
.nf
eos = 0xa
set-reos = no
set-bin = no
set-xeos = no
set-eot = yes
timeout = T30s
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
"Hewlett Packard 1630A/D Logic Analyzer Operating Manual",
second edition, May 1983.
.PP
"Hewlett Packard 1631A/D Logic Analyer Operating and Programming Manual",
Aug. 1985.
.PP
"Hewlett Packard 1630A/D/G and 1631A/D Logic Analyzers Service Manual",
Apr. 1988.
.PP
hptopbm(1), hptodino(1)
