.\" This file is part of gpib-utils.
.\" For details, see http://sourceforge.net/projects/gpib-utils.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2007 Jim Garlick <garlick@speakeasy.net>
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" gpib-utils is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with gpib-utils; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 
.\" Inc., 51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH sr620 1  2007-11-23 "" "gpib-utils"
.SH NAME
sr620 \- control SRS SR620 Universal Time Interval Counter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B sr620 [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsr620\fR controls the Stanford Research Systems, Inc. model SR620 
universal time interval counter via its GPIB interface.
.PP
\fBsr620\fR performs actions selected on the command line in a fixed sequence:
.IP
.nf
clear
selftest
autocal
save/restore config
graph commands
local
.SH "OPTIONS"
\fBsr620\fR accepts the following command line options:
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-address\fR address
Override the default instrument address in /etc/gpib-utils.conf.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-clear\fR
Clear the instrument, and verify the instrument ID.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR, \fB\-\-selftest\fR
Run instrument self-test procedure.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-autocal\fR
Run auto-calibration procedure.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-save\fR
Save instrument setup to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-restore\fR
Restore instrument setup from stdin.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-graph-clear\fR
Clear graph.
.TP
\fB\-G\fR, \fB\-\-graph-enable\fR
Enable graph mode.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-graph-disable\fR
Disable graph mode.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-graph-histogram\fR
Graph histogram.
.TP
\fB\-P\fR, \fB\-\-graph-mean\fR
Graph mean stripchart.
.TP
\fB\-j\fR, \fB\-\-graph-jitter\fR
Graph jitter stripchart.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-local\fR
Enable the front panel.
.SH FILES
/etc/gpib-utils.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
"Model SR620 Universal Time Interval Counter", revision 2.7, Feb. 2006.
